While we're talking about callables,
let's talk about void.
So if we look at this function,
look at its return type, its void.
If you've gotten really deep into
Javascript, you may know that
there is a void keyword
in Javascript It means,
in this context, ignore it.
It literally means do not consume
the return value of this function.
It is not what we would call a unit
type as null and undefined are for
one reason, Don't do this.
So you could do this.
Technically correct.
So it accepts a void.
It also accepts an undefined.
Can anyone think of why would it be
important that void accepts an undefined?
>> That would functions actually
return when there's no return.
>> That is exactly right.
It's what functions return
when there is no return.
So a void can be,
the type void is itself and undefined.
There are exactly two things
that are allowed in there.
Whereas null, or
if we were to do undefined here, or
if we were to do, yeah, null,
undefined is not gonna do.
This is not gonna do Only
this will do we would call
that a unit type like those literal types
right it's a set with one thing in it so.
Let's look at these two examples here
as an illustration of why
it's useful to have void.
This kind of demonstrates
the importance of void's existence.
So we've got two functions here.
We've got InvokeInFourSeconds and
InvokeInFiveSeconds.
They're very similar.
This is the only change between them,
so don't stare at them too closely.
We're going to create an array of values.
And here we're going to say
invoke in four seconds.
And then we're going to have pass
in an arrow function values.push 4.
If we do the same exact thing for
invoking five seconds,
it type checks And here's why.
Most people don't think about this
too much, but push returns a number.
It actually returns a number.
And so what we'd be saying here is,
I'm actually returning something.
And it's not undefined.
It is not the specific value undefined,
like as if I was doing this.
I am not returning an undefined.
I am returning a number.
Here I'm also returning a number,
but you know what we're saying.
Don't worry about it.
I don't care what the return is.
That's where you would use
a void in place of an undefined.
Do not create variables of type void.
It really only has meaning in the context
of the return value of a function,
but it does have a purpose here.
I mean, you could also do this,
but then of course,
like within this function you could start
to consume the value of this callback and
types your would be perfectly
happy to let you do so.
When it's void,
you won't get anywhere trying that,
which is what you want, right?
You want a helpful constraint there.
Yep, LJ, you're right,
push returns the length of the array.
Is it after the push?
Returns the new length, yep.
Last question in the chat, so we use void
when we don't care about the return value
irrespective of a value being returned or
not, correct.
That's correct.
Void means ignore my return value.
And one caveat here, if you do this
You'll be busted on this so
on the one hand we've we have a callback
here I put this back this is saying
I accept a function with any
return type and
please ignore it up here, we're saying,
I'm a function that should not return,
or I think I can still do this.
Can I do this?
Yeah, I can do that too.
But like literally anything else,
I will be stopped from doing.
So it's sorta a has a similar meaning but
slightly different depending on
what you're using where you're
defining the return type if it
is a function declaration,right
remember this is a value to value of
type function with a return type.
So when it's used as the return
type of a function declaration
it means I should follow through on
a commitment to return nothing useful.
At best, I return undefined.
Either I'll create
an undefined which is weird.
Or I'll just write return or
I won't have anything at all
like this function right now.
Like it's just pure side effects.
And it returns when you reach
the end of the function.
Here, it's perfectly willing
to accept a return value,
but it makes sure that within
the function that this callback is used,
you're not doing anything
with the return value.
A little bit of nuance there but
they kind of both mean I
shouldn't return anything interesting, or
whatever I'm returning is
not interesting that's void.